docs: migrate 'hooks' (#5463)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/reference/hooks.rst

Hooks
=====

A hook is an executable file that runs within a snap’s confined environment when
a certain action occurs.

Common scenarios requiring hooks include:

- Notifying a snap that something has happened. For example, if a snap has been
  upgraded, the snap may need to trigger a scripted migration process to port an
  old data format to the new one.

- Notifying a snap that a specific operation is in progress. For example, a snap may
  need to know when a specific interface connects or disconnects.

Transactions and rollback
-------------------------

> Snapd executes a hook as a single transaction, where a transaction holds all the
> configuration changes made by the hook. These changes are atomic and are only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snapd executes a hook as a single transaction that holds all the
configuration changes made by the hook. These changes are atomic and are only
```

Author: Updated.

visible to the running system after the hook finishes executing.

This allows changes to be rolled back if errors occur during the execution of a hook.
This happens if a non-zero value is returned with either the configure or
default-configure hooks or if an error occurs with any hook involved with
an `interface auto-connection <https://snapcraft.io/docs/auto-connection-mechanism>`_.

Environment
-----------

If the hook executable is a shell script, it should assume a POSIX-compliant shell
environment for its execution.

If your script needs a specific interpreter, such as Bash or Python, it needs to be

> explicitly declared within the script’s hashbang header (``#!/bin/bash``, for example)

Reviewer 2: > hashbang

Is this preferred over shebang?

Author: Good point, shebang seems to be more common.

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5463/commits/5454586af37a127d5d3ef0bbc856bb618916b60b

and your snap needs to ensure the interpreter is available.

Hook names
----------

The filename of the executable should be the name of the hook. If the file
exists, snapd will execute the file when required by that hook’s action. See

> `Supported snap hooks <https://snapcraft.io/docs/supported-snap-hooks>`_

Reviewer 2: I think we're retiring the rest of this content, so we shouldn't be linking to this page.

Is there another way to find all the available hooks? If not, we should reconsider and include the compendium of hooks on this page.

Author: There's nowhere else where each hook is described, so we should do something with them.

I think it's most appropriate to put them in snapd's side of the docs.  The list of supported hooks and the behavior of each hook at runtime is entirely driven by snapd.  

Snapcraft is concerned with the hook's name, location, and permissions of the hooks at build-time (which is what we have documented in our RTD pages).

Reviewer 2: Got it. I'll add it to the snapd migration tasks.

for details on supported hooks.

Adding hooks to a snap
----------------------

> A hook executable can be added to a snap in one of two ways. It can be in
> ``snap/hooks`` in the project or it can be generated at build time by a part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A hook executable can be added to a snap by either placing it in the project's
``snap/hooks`` directory or by generating it at build time with a part.
```

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5463/commits/5454586af37a127d5d3ef0bbc856bb618916b60b

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5463/commits/5454586af37a127d5d3ef0bbc856bb618916b60b

Adding a hook from the project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> A hook can be added to a snap by placing the hook executable in ``snap/hooks/`` in
> the project directory. The following example shows the location of a configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A hook can be added to a snap by placing the hook executable in the project's
``snap/hooks/`` directory. The following example shows the location of a configure
```

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5463/commits/5454586af37a127d5d3ef0bbc856bb618916b60b
